# jarg(1) - shorthand data serialization/encoding

## SYNOPSIS

  `jarg` [`-h`] [`-j` | `-y` | `-f`] [`-V`] *name=value* [*name=value* ...]

## DESCRIPTION

**jarg** provides a shorthand syntax for writing encoded data formats.
It works by adding name-value pairs to the current *context*,
which starts out empty by default.
It writes the final representation to standard output.

Each argument must be in the format of *name=value*.
Each name must be in the [HTML JSON form](http://www.w3.org/TR/html-json-forms/) ([http://www.w3.org/TR/html-json-forms/](http://www.w3.org/TR/html-json-forms/)) format.
The *=value* portion is optional, omitting it will cause the value to take the empty value of the current dialect.
Literal values may be provided in the *name:=value* format and they will be interpreted according to the current dialect.

Each name-value pair is added to the current context.
A starting context can be specified through standard input when not in a TTY,
and must be in the same dialect as the output.

## DIALECTS

Output is determined by the current dialect.
The default dialect is JSON.

### JSON

The output will be a JSON object.
Integers and floats are automatically recognized.
The empty value is *null*.

### YAML

The output will be a YAML document.
Integers and floats are automatically recognized.
The empty value is *null*.

### FORM

The output will be a percent-encoded list of name/value pairs,
in the application/x-www-form-urlencoded format.
The empty value is an empty string.

## OPTIONS

  * `-j`, `--json`:
    Set the current dialect to JSON. This is the default.

  * `-y`, `--yaml`:
    Set the current dialect to YAML.

  * `-f`, `--form`:
    Set the current dialect to form encoding.

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Show a help message and exit.

  * `-V`, `--version`:
    Show the version and exit.


## EXIT CODES

### 1

Error parsing literal value.

## EXAMPLES

Write some JSON to standard output:

    $ jarg foo=bar baz=123 bux:=true
    {"foo": "bar", "baz": 123, "bux": true}

Repeating key names implicitly builds an array:

    $ jarg a=1 a=2 a=3
    {"a": [1, 2, 3]}

Missing array indexes are automatically filled in:

    $ jarg a[2]=foo a[4]=bar
    {"a": [null, null, "foo", null, "bar"]}

Creating nested objects is allowed too:

    $ jarg foo[bar][baz]=quux
    {"foo": {"bar": {"baz": "quux"}}}

Force a string representation of a number in JSON:

    $ jarg foo:=\"123\"
    {"foo": "123"}

Say something nice about **jarg** in form encoding:

    $ jarg -f jarg="is cool and good"
    jarg=is+cool+and+good

## DEVELOPMENT

Development progress and issues are tracked on the project page.

  [http://github.com/jdp/jarg](http://github.com/jdp/jarg)

## BUGS

[https://github.com/jdp/jarg/issues](https://github.com/jdp/jarg/issues)

## WWW

[http://jdp.github.io/jarg](http://jdp.github.io/jarg)<br>

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright &copy; 2014 Justin Poliey [http://justinpoliey.com](http://justinpoliey.com)
